source/index.md, before:

---
title: dl? cmplnts?
---
## About me

My name is Zhiming Wang (Simplified Chinese: 王之铭), and I am a Ph.D. student in theoretical physics at Princeton (first year as of September 2016). Previously I earned my bachelor's degree in mathematics and physics at Stanford, and I still consider myself a would-be mathematician alongside physicist. I enjoy coding in my spare time, for fun and profit — I hate repetitive tasks, so computer programs help me automate and get things done quickly.

My first programming language was Pascal and I consider C my mother tongue, but recently I write most of my stuff in Python and Zsh. My operating system is OS X, my text editor is Emacs, my interactive (and non-interactive) shell is Zsh, my package manager is Homebrew, and my default browser at the moment is Google Chrome. I use four-space indents when the target language has no established convention that says otherwise. Any source code I publish on the Web is licensed under [WTFPL](http://www.wtfpl.net/) unless a license is explicitly declared. My public key is [here](/key.html), or you may find me on [Keybase](https://keybase.io/zmwangx). You won't and likely never will find me on SNS. What else is there to tell?

This blog could be about anything, but most of the stuff here should be technical. Oh yes, this blog is fully open source, down to how image assets were generated. All tools necessary for reproducing this blog are either in or documented in [the source branch](https://github.com/zmwangx/zmwangx.github.io/tree/source) of [zmwangx/zmwangx.github.io](https://github.com/zmwangx/zmwangx.github.io).

Commit message:

index.md: Update key and license info
Key: Link directly to public key on Keybase. This way I don't need to
keep the key updated in three places (keyservers, Keybase and website).

License: Make it clear that my license of choice is MIT (other than
WTFPL).

source/index.md, after:

---
title: dl? cmplnts?
---
## About me

My name is Zhiming Wang (Simplified Chinese: 王之铭), and I am a Ph.D. student in theoretical physics at Princeton (first year as of September 2016). Previously I earned my bachelor's degree in mathematics and physics at Stanford, and I still consider myself a would-be mathematician alongside physicist. I enjoy coding in my spare time, for fun and profit — I hate repetitive tasks, so computer programs help me automate and get things done quickly.

My first programming language was Pascal and I consider C my mother tongue, but recently I write most of my stuff in Python and Zsh. My operating system is OS X, my text editor is Emacs, my interactive (and non-interactive) shell is Zsh, my package manager is Homebrew, and my default browser at the moment is Google Chrome. I use four-space indents when the target language has no established convention that says otherwise. Any source code I publish on the Web is licensed under [WTFPL](http://www.wtfpl.net/) unless a license is explicitly declared (usually OSI's MIT, aka Expat). I am on [Keybase](https://keybase.io/zmwangx) in case you are security-minded (or use [this link](https://keybase.io/zmwangx/key.asc) if you just want my public key). You won't and likely never will find me on SNS. What else is there to tell?

This blog could be about anything, but most of the stuff here should be technical. Oh yes, this blog is fully open source, down to how image assets were generated. All tools necessary for reproducing this blog are either in or documented in [the source branch](https://github.com/zmwangx/zmwangx.github.io/tree/source) of [zmwangx/zmwangx.github.io](https://github.com/zmwangx/zmwangx.github.io).
